[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ROBERT BANNAN: We give
them an artificial disease
with the potency.
And then we collect
all that information,
and that becomes
our index to the use
of that in an actual disease.
That is so profound.
The karmic rut that they've
been stuck in is just finished.
It's not about the
size of the dose,
it's about the intensity
of the potency.
But, you know, in America, we
like to think we're independent
and we're free.
But actually, we're
much more impressionable
than we like to recognize.
If modern medicine
really worked,
we'd see fewer and fewer people
needing fewer and fewer drugs
less and less frequently.
Now, I don't know about you,
but that's not what I'm seeing.
As we become less healthy
it's harder and harder for us
to manifest our will.
We want things we
can't have, and we
get things we don't want.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA: What if homeopathy
could help you speed along
karmic recovery?
According to Robert Bannan,
our internal world of wounds,
both physically and
emotionally, need
to be handled in a complex
and delicate manner.
No two conditions, even
the same diagnosis,
require the same
approach because what's
underneath them is so unique.
We're all so unique.
Robert, it's
wonderful meeting you.
>>BANNAN: It's a
pleasure to be here.
>>REGINA: And I was
interested in the story.
I have done a couple of pieces
on homeopathy in the past.
But the notion of helping
along karmic recovery
was something I hadn't heard
before with homeopathy.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
It's kind of a thing that I've
been talking about for about 15
or maybe 20 years now, looking
at what happens to people
when they receive
good treatment.
It's as if patterns that they've
been stuck in for decades,
or sometimes most of their
life, in some instances just
seem to dissolve very quickly.
And suddenly, their
whole life frees up.
And they start moving and living
their life in a different way.
And I thought, what--
that is so profound.
What's actually happening here
it's almost like the karmic rut
that they've been stuck
in is just finished.
>>REGINA: It's like
it was permeating
the cells of their body
it had gone so physical.
And in fact, when we're
talking homeopathy,
we're talking about
quantum reality.
>>BANNAN: I think so.
This is my sense.
>>REGINA: That's my sense, too.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
Because the important
thing to keep in view,
probably the main
difference between what
we do in homeopathy
and holistic therapies
in general and
classical medicine
is we understand that the
real cause of the problem
is actually an
internal situation.
So in a sense, you
could say there's
an internal spiritual
deficiency of some kind,
and the disease, the
signs and symptoms,
the emotional dynamics,
the difficulties
are only the
external expressions
of these internal-- this
true internal problem.
And we need to meet the
problem on the plane
that it actually exists on.
It's no good addressing
the external problem
without taking care of
actually what's behind it.
>>REGINA: Which is,
of course, the problem
with allopathic medicine-- why
you get the same color Band-Aid
for the same diagnosis, right?
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
I don't want to beat up
on classical medicine
because there's a
lot of good things
there as well, of course.
>>REGINA: We need it.
>>BANNAN: We need it.
>>REGINA: We do.
We need it for a
lot of things, but--
>>BANNAN: It pertains
to the mechanism,
to the physical
results of the disease,
rather than to the
real disease itself.
>>REGINA: And the
origin of the disease.
And so, again, when we
get back to the world
of quantum mechanics, it
is a field of information--
>>BANNAN: Indeed.
>>REGINA: --which
permeates everything.
This desk, you, me,
the entire universe
is simply encoded
with information that
expresses in different ways.
>>BANNAN: Yes, indeed.
>>REGINA: Make
your comments on it
because then we're going to get
into the actual little pills
themselves.
>>BANNAN: OK.
Well, you know, when we're
talking about this inner world
and this outer world, in--
I don't want to
present myself as
a dilettante theoretical
physicist, which I'm definitely
not.
But this really
fascinates me, and I'm
really interested in it,
particularly because it
overlaps with homeopathy.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>BANNAN: I think it explains
homeopathy, actually.
>>REGINA: It does.
Yes.
>>BANNAN: Eventually, it will.
Like you say, the
whole physical universe
is actually evolved
out of the quantum.
And so there's a real-
there's a tendency
to be mystical about what
this quantum is all about.
It's certainly very weird.
The laws in the
quantum reality are
inverse to the laws in
the relative reality.
So you get these strange
things like superposition
and entanglement and
decoherence and the rest of it.
But if there's an
internal disturbance
in the world of
causes, that's where
the disturbance has to be met.
And this is why I think that
actually homeopathic remedies
are composed of
quantum coherence
domains of the substance
that are actually made from.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
Because there is no there there.
They're not material in nature.
So, of course, that would just
take you right into the quantum
world, wouldn't it?
>>BANNAN: Once you get to the
12th centesimal potency, which
is a quite low
potency in homeopathy,
you reach what's called
Avogadro's number.
There's not a single
molecule left.
>>REGINA: Right.
And so for those who have
not experienced homeopathy
and don't understand
this about it,
because that's really
the magic of it.
It is potentized information.
>>BANNAN: I think that's
a good way of saying it.
It's probably the best way of--
it's the best analogy for it.
But it's quantum information,
and I think that's important.
Because really,
there are two things
that have to be met
in treating somebody
with a homeopathic remedy.
The first thing is the
homeopathic correspondence
needs to be there
between the substance
that the remedy is made of and
the person and their process.
But it also has to be
prepared in such a way
that it goes to
the level of cause.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Let's just take the
drug, Digitalis.
>>BANNAN: OK.
Wonderful.
>>REGINA: Let's play
with that and talk
about what it looks like
in these different domains.
>>BANNAN: Well, in
the outer domain,
Digitalis has been used for
probably thousands of years
as a medicine for heart disease.
There's a very strong
affinity for the heart.
It also has a very strong
affinity for the liver
and for a lot of other
stuff in the system,
but it's been identified
as a heart medicine.
And it is.
>>REGINA: Tell us how
it's normally administered
and under what conditions.
>>BANNAN: Well, it would
be used for bradycardia,
which would be slow
heartbeat in a decompensating
state of the heart.
And it would be used
in material doses.
And it can and would
stabilize certain conditions.
>>REGINA: When a
person's tanking.
>>BANNAN: When a
Precisely.
But it's not going to
resolve the problem.
It's just a physical
chemical assist
to palliate the situation.
It's not really
addressing the problem.
In the homeopathic
sphere, this remedy
would be prepared into
a homeopathic potency.
And then the signs and
symptoms of a natural disease
that match with the information
we have about the remedy,
we get this information by
doing what we call provings--
homeopathic provings.
These are experiments.
It's actually an
anglicization of a German word
which simply means experiment.
All of the remedies, most
of the remedies we use
are experimented with.
We give them in homeopathic
potency to healthy people.
It's best if we
do this in a group
because the group
dynamic seems to augment
the way the information
is presented in quite
a powerful way, actually.
We give people the
remedy in potency
until they start to
produce symptoms.
So it's a kind of a--
>>REGINA: Like cures like.
>>BANNAN: We dissed
you in a way.
We give them an artificial
disease with the potency,
and then we collect
all that information.
And that becomes
our index to the use
of that in an actual disease.
So these are the phenomena
that this Digitalis
is capable of producing
in healthy people.
These are the phenomena we
use to apply this remedy
in a natural disease.
When we find the correspondence
between the natural disease
process and the
phenomena of the proving,
we know that there is a
homeopathic correspondence.
So that's the first
thing that has to be met.
Then comes the
question of potency.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because
as it's potentized,
it becomes even further
and further away
from the original molecules
that it was initially made from.
>>BANNAN: After the 12th
centesimal potency--
>>REGINA: There
are no molecules.
>>BANNAN: There's nothing there.
So it's completely non-toxic.
>>REGINA: It's just been
imprinted with the information
of Digitalis.
>>BANNAN: Precisely.
The quantum signature
of the substance
is there in the potency, and
we can control the intensity
of that signature.
So the quantum-- the impulse
of that electromagnetically
on the system we're
giving it to can
be controlled by increasing
or decreasing the potency.
It's not about the
size of the dose,
it's about the intensity
of the potency.
>>REGINA: So whether it's
a 12, or a 30, or a 200.
>>BANNAN: Or a 1,000,
or a 10,000 or a 50,000,
et cetera, et cetera,
this will be-- these
will be used according to
the nature of the case.
It's case specific.
It's always case specific.
This is a fundamental thing.
With homeopathy, every case
has to be individualized.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now, I'm going to ask
one question about--
and something else just
popped into my head.
Do homeopaths also
work with cell salts?
>>BANNAN: Well, actually,
Schuessler was a homeopath.
And I think he was
a bit bamboozled
by how many remedies we had.
So his approach was
midway between homeopathy
and allopathy.
>>REGINA: Which is cell salts.
>>BANNAN: Which is cell salts.
They are still
homeopathic remedies.
And actually, they're
beautiful homeopathic remedies.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's why I was wondering
if those worlds still
work together.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
They do, they
overlap, certainly.
But the idea-- his
idea behind cell salts
was that you could look
at the specific compounds
in the substrate or
the cellular material
and use this for
application of a remedy.
But there are only 12 of them.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
There are only 12, right--
the months of the year.
>>BANNAN: And there are
something like 12,000
homeopathic remedies.
>>REGINA: Yeah, right.
Exactly.
OK.
So I'm going to get back on
the track we were on before.
So Digitalis, heart disease,
palliative, you're tanking.
Take the physical stuff.
Kind of get up so you can
make it to live another day.
Now, you're taking
it homeopathically,
and this is going to
the level of the cause.
>>BANNAN: Yes,
but wait a second.
>>REGINA: Because I want
to get to the ancestral
part of how we got there.
>>BANNAN: Oh, I see.
We're going to ancestral.
OK, so let me unpack
this a little bit
because the indications
for the material
Digitalis for palliation can
be opposite to the indications
of Digitalis impotency.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>BANNAN: Yeah because
the internal quantum
laws are actually the inverse
of the external material laws.
So it may be a different
kind of heart decompensation
that really cures--
is really cured with Digitalis.
And there will be concomitants
in the other spheres
in the body as well,
particularly the liver.
>>REGINA: What does
it do to the liver?
>>BANNAN: It makes it difficult
to digest food, basically.
And in many heart conditions,
any good cardiologist
will tell you--
>>REGINA: No.
It's called a side effect.
>>BANNAN: Well--
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>>BANNAN: This is-- it's a
lovely word, side effect.
But actually, there
aren't any side effects.
There's just effects.
>>REGINA: Yeah, OK.
So let's go to--
OK.
So there's heart
disease in your family.
This is all a hypothetical.
There's heart disease
in the family.
Now, how do you work
then because these
are these ancestral patterns.
>>BANNAN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: That doesn't mean
it's necessarily in your DNA,
but it's in your larger,
energetic quantum
field of information.
>>BANNAN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about where that comes from,
how it gets implanted, even
if it's not in your genetics.
>>BANNAN: It doesn't have
to be in your genetics.
Epigenetics is probably more
significant than genetics
when we're looking at this.
>>REGINA: Totally agree.
>>BANNAN: But if there's a line
of heart disease in the family,
then the affinity
for the heart is
going to be pretty obvious
in dealing with this person.
So then we're
looking at the heart
as probably the most
vulnerable system, probably
what the person's going
to die with in the end.
And probably we can do something
about when that end comes.
But importantly, if
there's a disease
of the heart with a
qualification of there
are many ways that
that can manifest,
the heart is an organ which
has many correspondences.
You see, there are
correspondences
between organs and functions.
So when we think of the heart,
we can think of expansiveness.
We can think about contraction.
We can think about love.
We can think about
a lack of love.
>>REGINA: And that
is in that lineage.
Those challenges
are in that lineage.
>>BANNAN: The
dynamics of the heart
are not just expressed on the
language of organic pathology.
Every organ speaks
its own language.
The liver will say the
same thing as the heart,
but it will say it in
a different language.
The kidneys will say the
same things as the heart,
but they'll say it in
a different language.
So we have to learn to
translate or disencode
the language that the system is
using, and it's very pertinent.
So these kind of
inherited tendencies
have implications beyond
simply the organ itself.
But when you're talking
about the heart,
it's about how we relate
to life fundamentally,
what the will to be is.
>>REGINA: So now, you
have someone before you
that says, oh, yeah.
It runs in my family.
I'm going to die
of a heart attack.
Or I'm afraid I'm going
to die of a heart attack.
>>BANNAN: That's
a different thing.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So how do you start
working with them
when you know the vulnerability
is in the emotional field
and so forth?
And we're going to get into a
quirky little thing we found
that you use with your
clients as well for diving
into their character--
as you say, provoking them.
But before we go there, how
do you begin working with that
because every person
is different when you
start the interview process?
>>BANNAN: I think
very important there's
something we talk about
called the therapeutic field.
Like, we're in a field now.
We're actually transferring
information to each other.
This is a field
of communication.
The therapeutic field is
a similar kind of field,
but it has a specific aim, which
is the healing of somebody.
So the way this
information is transferred
can be helped a lot by
the nature of the presence
of the homeopath.
So it's very important
to be unprejudiced.
If I come into this
consultation, OK,
I'm interested in the
heart, just the heart.
Let's not listen
to anything else.
I'm not interested.
Filter all this out.
>>REGINA: Well, you
wouldn't be a homeopath.
>>BANNAN: I wouldn't
be a homeopath.
But actually, this unprejudiced
idea is very, very significant.
And where you're
coming from, if you're
coming with a clear heart,
and you're not prejudiced,
and you're really open
to help this person,
it enables them
to tell you things
they'll never tell anyone.
>>REGINA: Because
your interview process
is not like going to Kaiser.
>>BANNAN: Fortunately,
it's a different universe.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Because you start
asking-- you want
to know the fundamental
questions about a person's
emotional state, their mental
state, their digestive state,
et cetera, right?
What are all the
factors you're looking
at in that initial consult?
>>BANNAN: Well, it's a
complex investigation
because we're looking at all
different kinds of information.
And then we're looking
for a coherence
between these different
levels of expression
within the system.
Like I was saying,
the heart speaks--
will say the same things in one
language, the liver in another.
But the emotion
is also in another
and the sensations in another.
Sensations are very
important-- the way
we experience being embodied.
What's the meaning
of our suffering?
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Is it serving
us, or is it gratuitous?
>>BANNAN: It can be
either, can't it?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
So I have to come into
this investigation
with an open heart and mind.
I don't want to be closing
on the heart too quickly.
So I'm very interested
in this heart thing.
And somewhere over
here it's saying,
he probably needs
a heart remedy.
But I don't want that to
influence me because sometimes
he won't need a
heart remedy that's
recognized as a heart remedy.
>>REGINA: And this is
millions and millions
and millions of human beings
have issues with the heart.
And what you're seeing
in your patients,
is this increasing more with
the incredible anxiety happening
in the world these days?
>>BANNAN: That's a big one
because we're not islands.
We're so interconnected.
We're-- you know, in
America, we like to think
of our-- we're independent
and we're free.
But actually, we're
much more impressionable
than we'd like to recognize.
We're so interconnected.
And actually in the end, our
best resource is each other.
So these connections and
the way we work and live
with these connections are
fundamental to being healthy,
actually.
>>REGINA: So the
entanglement and the heart--
quantum entanglement and the
heart where so many have always
suffered-- are there
more suffering now
because of the entanglement
and because of the anxiety--
mass anxiety that people
are experiencing and levels
of fear about the future?
>>BANNAN: It's a really
interesting question
because actually, when
we look at something
like a biological system,
like an individual person,
then we can draw circles.
We say, OK, this
is an individual.
And then the next circle will
be the family of the person.
be the community of the person.
And then the society,
the nation, the culture--
increasing circles.
We're each a fractal
of each of these.
We're not separate from them.
So what's happening in the state
of a culture influences each
of us profoundly.
But it's a bidirection.
It goes both ways.
I'm an eternal optimist, but
I can't say anything good
about that.
>>REGINA: Right now.
>>BANNAN: But what I
can say is in nature
there are always cycles.
So the tide goes in.
The tide goes out.
Tide goes in, and
we spiral around.
So we go through these
large cycles in time.
And we're in a part of a cycle
now, which is not very pretty.
And it doesn't-- you can't
see the light of dawn
on the horizon yet.
>>REGINA: Are you speaking
as large as Yuga cycles, or--
>>BANNAN: You could
say we're in Kali Yuga.
>>REGINA: Yeah, we are.
We are.
That's a fact.
>>BANNAN: But there are
pluses to Kali Yuga as well.
It's easier to get
free in Kali Yuga.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes, you can break free.
Revolution,
provocation-- we're going
to get to that in a
moment, to provocation.
So when you're sitting
with this person.
You've kind of woven
around the story,
and you realize, OK, it's heart.
And there's obviously a lot
of emotional entanglement
with the past and
belief systems.
Do you do one type of remedy
to go into the emotional field,
and that just trickles up?
Or are there different
levels and types of remedies
as you go further
toward the physical?
>>BANNAN: That's a
really good question.
It's not easy to say what's
going to happen because there
are different
approaches to applying
the homeopathic
principle, of course.
You can work in
both of those ways.
My interest is going for
the big kahuna, which
is I want to encompass this,
that, this and that together
as a totality.
This is the organic whole
of this person's being.
I want to address it in as
holistic a way as possible.
So I tend to put things and try
and hold things in solution.
I don't want to be too
prejudiced about the heart.
I know it's important.
But what else is important?
And how do I qualify that?
Yeah.
So yeah.
>>REGINA: You might work
with an emotional remedy
under the surface first?
>>BANNAN: I'll try and focus
on where the energy is most
central--
what the central nexus
of what's happening now.
>>REGINA: I mean, if
they're clearly a wound--
an open wound walking
with a broken heart,
and they can't get
over the story.
>>BANNAN: If they're an open
wound working with a broken
heart, and they can't
get over the story--
you see, we can go to--
we can palliate that
with an acute remedy, which
will make them feel better
temporarily, but it won't
address the underlying reason
that they go into such a damaged
state in the first place.
>>REGINA: Right.
So many people-- let's
use this as an example--
certainly the women I know, most
of them have digestive issues.
Most of them-- it doesn't
matter, even the age anymore.
Why is that?
What are you seeing in mass?
I know we're all
individuals, but there
are some things happening to
create this chronic situation
in mass.
>>BANNAN: I don't want to
say that the physical system
doesn't have significance.
It's a huge significance.
>>REGINA: Well, it's
telling us something.
>>BANNAN: It is our physical
being in this world.
>>REGINA: But why so
many digestive upsets
among the females in particular?
>>BANNAN: Do you want a list?
There are a number of reasons.
Yeah because--
>>REGINA: Give us
the top three hits.
>>BANNAN: Well, first is diet.
What are we eating?
What are we putting in that's
so difficult to digest.
Look at our food system.
>>REGINA: Let's
not, but go ahead.
[LAUGHTER]
>>BANNAN: You see,
in a way, when
you begin to look at
this in a holistic way,
as a-- the whole paradigm of
information starts to change.
You look at the way
modern medicine works,
the way you look at agriculture
works, the food industry works,
the pharmaceutical industry.
They all work in the
same principles and--
>>REGINA: Yeah, profit.
>>BANNAN: They're not healthy.
They don't-- they're not
paying attention to the natural
harmony and health.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BANNAN: So that's number one.
Then there's going to
be relationships to,
how to digest.
Why can't the system digest?
OK, what you're putting
in is one thing,
but some people will
be able to digest that.
So why is it a particular
issue for this person?
Now, we're beginning to find
a complex starting to evolve.
So there's a relationship
between these things.
And so you can't
digest unfairness.
You can't digest it.
You've got indigestion.
You've got unfairness
indigestion.
>>REGINA: Yeah, right.
>>BANNAN: So the principle
of justice and equanimity
and truth is
probably fundamental.
So then we have to look at
the way this is affecting you
emotionally.
Usually, if there's
difficulty with the digestion,
there's probably a
separation between the will
and the understanding.
So--
>>REGINA: Explain
that a little for us
because there are so many people
that have this issue right now
and heart problems.
So it doesn't--
just explain that.
>>BANNAN: Well, the will
pertains to the heart,
really-- the spiritual heart.
What is your will?
What's the purpose
of your existence?
Why are you here?
Every soul comes
here with a purpose--
a specific purpose.
>>REGINA: So what do
you mean the difference
between your will and
your understanding?
>>BANNAN: Well, in health,
like I was saying before,
health is wholeness.
There's a harmony.
These things are not separated.
You will-- and you
understand-- the understanding
serves of the will, so that
you can manifest your will.
>>REGINA: So that's
what you call
the manifestation of healing.
This is a good time to
get into that topic.
>>BANNAN: This is simply health.
This is a healthy
condition, where
the time period between willing
something and actuating it
is very short.
Part of the reason for
that is that in health, you
don't want things
you can't have,
and you get things
that you want.
And as we lose our
health, a polarization
happens between the will
and the understanding.
And this is relative.
There are relative
levels of health,
and it's very important
to appreciate.
This isn't black or white.
As people's health deteriorates,
the will and the understanding
separate.
And people start to want
things they can't have,
and they start to get--
>>REGINA: Or that
they shouldn't have.
>>BANNAN: And they shouldn't
have, but that they can't have.
They're not easy to get.
>>REGINA: I see.
Oh, I see.
>>BANNAN: So they don't
get what they want.
>>REGINA: You're
in a state of lack.
OK.
>>BANNAN: They don't get
what they want because they
want something they can't have.
>>REGINA: So this deep
disappointment, OK,
is blocking their ability to
have that coherence or harmony.
>>BANNAN: Precisely.
Yeah.
These two are closely related.
>>REGINA: Now,
this is interesting
because everything in our
culture in the Western world
is to inspire us to
have what most of us
can't have or can't afford.
>>BANNAN: Yeah, it's the
profit motive, you know?
Create the need.
>>REGINA: Create the desire.
>>BANNAN: Create the desire.
And as we become less healthy,
it's harder and harder for us
to manifest our will.
We want things we
can't have, and we
get things we don't want,
and the cycle goes on.
>>REGINA: Chasing shiny things.
>>BANNAN: Precisely, yeah.
And when you get them,
there's no satisfaction in it,
of course, because this
isn't what your inner--
>>REGINA: So now, how is this
showing up with someone sitting
before you in your office--
this chasing-- this
eternal disappointment
of chasing things
they can't have?
And then, thus, drawing
things that you don't want.
>>BANNAN: People come
when they have a problem.
I say there are two
kinds of clients.
This is one way of
cutting the pie.
There's people who
come who are suffering.
They want relief from suffering,
and that's what they want.
They've tried everything,
and it hasn't worked.
They just want relief,
and that's perfectly
good and understandable.
And then there are
people who actually
come because they
want to heal, which is
a much more profound position.
Fortunately, more
and more people
are coming with
this understanding
that this isn't just something
that's happening to me.
This is something
more fundamental--
>>REGINA: You've
been co-creating.
>>BANNAN: --to my orientation.
Yes.
Yeah.
And then, really, we're cooking
because we're working together.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
So the whole world
is conditioned
to have us seek what we can't
have, for the most part.
Most of us are not going to
be able with a spare dime
buy a villa in
France or in Italy.
And we're not going to look
like the supermodel that's
in the pool in that villa.
And yet, this yearning has
been created that is so false.
But it's our responsibility
to start understanding
what has true value.
Would that go a long
way toward our health?
>>BANNAN: The shoe's on
the other foot, I think.
As we become more healthy, as
we heal, this shift in values
happens naturally.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>BANNAN: Because the internal
and the external depolarize.
They start to become
harmonious with each other.
And so the will and the
understanding begin to line up.
And this is what-- in fact, real
healing, true healing raises
the level of a
person's consciousness,
and it expands their
spiritual awareness.
>>REGINA: Well, it has to
because if you're not feeling
well, and your energy is low,
you cannot expand very easily.
Your creativity dips.
Everything dips.
>>BANNAN: And you can't manifest
what it is you're here to do,
and that's really
what's crucial.
We're here for a purpose.
>>REGINA: Is there
any kind of overlay
that you're seeing in terms of
the rise of chronic conditions?
>>BANNAN: It is.
There is certainly a rise
in chronic conditions.
And if you think about it, if
modern medicine really worked,
what would we see?
We'd see fewer and fewer people
needing fewer and fewer drugs
less and less frequently.
Now, I don't know about you,
but that's not what I'm seeing.
Some of this is related to the
ability of modern diagnostics
to actually identify things.
Some of it is related to--
I hate to say this, but there
are fashions in medicine.
And if you look at the DSM--
the manual for-- the
Diagnostic Statistical Manual,
you'll see new
diagnoses appearing
which have specific treatments.
It's a very profitable business.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: But I mean, for you--
what you're seeing
in your clients.
>>BANNAN: I see all
kinds of things.
I see everything.
I don't--
>>REGINA: So there's
not one thing
that's kind of popping
up more these days?
>>BANNAN: You see a lot
more autoimmune diseases
than you used to.
>>REGINA: That's what I
was just going to ask you.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Do you--
let me ask you this.
Since COVID-- and forget the
argument over vaccinated,
unvaccinated.
Everybody kind of got it--
didn't matter.
Are you seeing more autoimmune
problems now from that, or--
>>BANNAN: I don't think
this has been digested yet.
I think this is early days.
The problem is because of--
we have to understand
culturally,
we're so profoundly
indoctrinated by materialism.
We think that this is the
definition of our experience.
It's not.
It's just one
interpretation, you know?
>>REGINA: But the
interesting thing about COVID
is what it did to us
spiritually, psychically,
emotionally, and physically.
>>BANNAN: But it's an
external expression
of a pre-existing
internal deficiency.
>>REGINA: Explain that.
>>BANNAN: It
couldn't have mani--
it couldn't-- this could not
have manifested in a healthy
society.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
There you go.
>>BANNAN: It could
not have happened.
And look at-- there
are some societies
in which it didn't manifest.
Look at the African nations.
Some of them didn't have COVID.
>>REGINA: That's true.
Absolutely.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's a
very good point you bring up.
So back to autoimmune because
that seems to be everywhere.
>>BANNAN: Yes, and
increasingly everywhere.
And it represents an
increasing complexity
of the condition of the
population's health.
And it's a real concern.
The real problem is because of
our philosophical materialism,
we blame everything
on the external.
We think it's an external cause.
If there's a problem, it's
because of the neighbor,
or it's because of the weather.
It's because of what I ate, or
it's because of the markets,
whatever.
There's always something
out there that's
the cause of the trouble.
>>REGINA: One of the
probably exemplary examples
in terms of longevity
and physical well-being
has been England's royal family
and the use of homeopathics.
>>BANNAN: Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Well, they've been avid
homeopaths for over 100 years.
>>REGINA: Yes, and most of them
live to be about 100 years.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
Most of them live well
into their 90s, yeah.
Or the Queen Mother
died, 103, I think.
The Queen's husband died at 99.
>>REGINA: Just
before his hundredth.
>>BANNAN: Just before he got his
telegram from the Queen, yeah.
Yes, they're well taken care of.
And so I do think that good
homeopathic work will do a lot
to safeguard people from
degenerative problems related
to their inheritance and
environmental factors
and stresses and strains.
>>REGINA: So what about
the average person?
Now, we're talking about
the average person.
We all have issues.
Everybody has something
wrong, and not
everyone can even afford
to go to a homeopath.
>>BANNAN: This is true.
>>REGINA: So now,
how can you even
begin to incorporate
homeopathy in your life
if you can't afford
to go to a homeopath.
I mean, you can go to Whole
Foods, and there are whole--
you can say sinusitis
or headaches,
and you got your
remedy right there--
Boiron.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
Yeah, you can do that, but this
is like Schuessler's tissue
salts.
It's a very reductive model.
>>REGINA: But can it
help the symptoms?
>>BANNAN: It can
help the symptoms.
No question.
>>REGINA: OK.
Arnica montana.
>>BANNAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Everybody's heard of
that pretty much and used it,
and you go to the dentist.
You take a little
Arnica, and your tooth
doesn't hurt as badly.
So let's talk about that.
Let's even talk
about the complexity
of Arnica montana, the most
popular one for a moment--
>>BANNAN: OK.
>>REGINA: --in the populace.
>>BANNAN: That's an
interesting approach
because this concept of
similitude-- the principle
of homeopathy-- homeopathy,
similar suffering.
The principle of similitude
is the most important one.
But similar by
definition is relative.
There are degrees of similarity.
So you can apply it on a
fairly superficial level,
or you can apply
it on a deep level.
And you can apply
it on gradations
in between these
two levels, and you
will get a result proportionate
to how deep the correspondence
is.
So if you've just hit
your thumb with a hammer--
>>REGINA: And you have a
little vial of, say, 200.
>>BANNAN: 200 or 30.
>>REGINA: Or 30, whatever.
>>BANNAN: You take
Arnica 30, you'll
be amazed how you don't have a
problem with your thumb really.
Next day, it's like you didn't
hit your thumb with a hammer.
>>REGINA: Sounds
pretty good to me.
>>BANNAN: It's
quite astonishing.
I know people who've
convinced that they've
smashed their fingers in a
train door, for instance.
And they take Arnica 30 or
200, and next day there's
no problem, you know?
>>REGINA: So--
>>BANNAN: It's a very concise
prescription based on event,
and an event that's very
defined in space and time.
>>REGINA: And traumatic.
>>BANNAN: And traumatic.
Well, the trauma is
what Arnica's all about.
But there are different
levels of trauma, of course.
On that level of
simple physical trauma,
immediately now Arnica will help
probably 80% or 90% of people.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: So that's a
good one to have on hand.
>>BANNAN: It's a very
good one to have.
If you go traveling,
take Arnica 30 with you.
You never know.
>>REGINA: So you said,
though, it's about trauma,
meaning it has to be about
different levels of trauma,
too.
>>BANNAN: Well,
Arnica-- for instance,
if you had a remedy as
a holistic prescription
for somebody, if
you find somebody
who needs Arnica
and has needed it
since the beginning
of their life
as a homeopathic
simillimum, there's
a profound correspondence
between the Arnica
and the person.
And what you'll find
is the story of Arnica
really is all about trauma,
or is all about vulnerability,
actually.
It's really a paradigm
of vulnerability
and the strategy for
coping with vulnerability.
>>REGINA: So can it help you
deal with emotional trauma,
too?
>>BANNAN: No.
>>REGINA: No.
>>BANNAN: Absolutely not.
It's the opposite because
the strategy that Arnica
uses to cope with vulnerability
when they're relatively healthy
is to be invulnerable.
They jump out of
airplanes, climb mountains,
do dangerous things to prove
to themselves and the world
that they're invulnerable.
And then something
happens, usually
when they're in their early 50s.
>>REGINA: If the chute
doesn't open you mean or what?
>>BANNAN: Precisely.
Or they have a relatively
minor disease or something
which demonstrates to them
that they're vulnerable,
and they can't kid themselves
that they're not vulnerable
anymore.
Then you can see a dramatic
kind of a decompensation,
and then this almost
hypochondriasis develops out
of invulnerability.
So this is what you'll
see in a chronic, much
deeper correspondence between
the Arnica and the person.
But on an everyday level--
bang, Arnica.
>>REGINA: Tooth work--
take your Arnica.
>>BANNAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK, so on that level,
do you have a couple remedies
that you could say without
seeing the person would
work for anxiety?
>>BANNAN: I wouldn't go there.
>>REGINA: Yeah because
it's-- that's too individual.
>>BANNAN: It's too individual.
And--
>>REGINA: So we just go and read
it on the little container--
anxiety.
>>BANNAN: I mean, like we
have these reference manuals
called repertories
that we use sometimes.
You look at the
repertory for anxiety.
There's an anxiety rubric.
It's got about
1,000 clicks in it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's true.
OK.
All right.
Forget that.
So I have one final
question for you
here, which is because
homeopathy is so effective,
and it is an actual alternative
to allopathic medicine,
why does it still exist?
Why hasn't it been run out of
business like everything else?
>>BANNAN: Well, they're
making concerted efforts now.
In the last 20
years, they've really
rubbished it in the
media, particularly
in the UK and Europe.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, yeah.
I've seen it.
>>BANNAN: And now you've
got the FDA working
to make homeopathic
remedies unavailable
because they're toxic.
This is the same FDA that
regulates really toxic drugs.
So it's--
>>REGINA: All those opioids
out there among the populace.
>>BANNAN: Exactly.
So it's not that they're
on our side by any means.
>>REGINA: I'm just wondering
how they haven't already
killed you guys.
>>BANNAN: It's the truth.
>>REGINA: People find their way.
And they can't-- I mean,
what are they going to say?
It doesn't have anything there.
>>BANNAN: There's nothing in it.
>>REGINA: There's nothing in it.
>>BANNAN: That's been
their argument today.
Now, they're going to find--
probably, they'll
find something,
some reason, some excuse to--
>>REGINA: So that means we have
to stand up as human beings,
as citizens, and fight
for the remedies we feel--
the holistic therapies we feel
have value-- just fight for it.
>>BANNAN: This is
what we're doing.
It's happening.
We're writing to our congressmen
and all the rest of it.
>>REGINA: So what do you see is
the future of homeopathy then?
If you look into
the bright future--
you said you're an
optimist a while ago.
>>BANNAN: I'm also--
>>REGINA: A realist.
>>BANNAN: Yeah, something
of a realist, yeah.
I like to kid myself anyway.
Homeopathy is the truth.
It's just a brute fact.
It's not going to go away.
Whether human beings
accept it or not,
it's going to be
here in 1,000 years.
It's how it is.
The question is, are we going
to get in alignment with it?
Are we going to align ourselves
to the truth or aren't we?
This is really what it
comes down to as a society,
as a culture, as individuals.
Are we going to move up--
we're going to strive
up to the light?
Or are we going to
move away from it?
>>REGINA: Well, that is
the ultimate question.
>>BANNAN: Yeah.
And that's in our hands, as
far as we're able to do so.
>>REGINA: On that note,
we'll say goodbye,
and I couldn't agree more.
It's in our hands.
Thank you so much for
being with us today.
>>BANNAN: It's been a pleasure.
It's been a pleasure.
>>REGINA: To learn more
about Robert's work,
you can go to
innerhealthworks.com.
There are many
brilliant articles
on current events and studies
on homeopathy to peruse there.
I've been through the site.
Plus, you can reach Robert.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]